# OCTO Training - TOGAF® Enterprise Architecture Niveau : expert

2025-12-08 to 2025-12-12

Objective : obtain the TOGAF Foundation + Practitioner certifications

## Introduction

> The TOGAF Standard represents today’s stable, scalable, best practices, with concepts and guidance that apply across industries, scale, and pace of change.

TOGAF Library = TOGAF Standard + Other documentations (White Papers, Reference Architectures and Cards, Data Sheets, Guides)
 
TOGAF Standard :
 - TOGAF Fundamental Content : EA Fundamental Concepts
 - TOGAF Series Guides : Make Concepts actionable

### TOGAF Entreprise Architecture

2 niveaux :
 - L1 : Base de Connaissance
   - QCM 40 questions
   - 1 point par réponse correcte, > 60% de bonnes réponses
   - Livre fermé
   - 1H  
 - L2 : Garantir la Compréhension du standard (Cas d'usage)
   - QCM 8 études de cas, 4 réponses possibles
   - 0,1,3,5 pts par réponses, > 24 pts
   - Livre ouvert
   - 1H30

Reco : faire une première passe rapide, noter les doutes, revenir
Reco : 1ère intuition souvent bonne
Reco : aller en centre d'examen
Reco : si solo, pas de PC Pro, attention à l'environnement (garder les yeux fixés sur l'écran, pas de bruits, ...)
Reco : + passage éloigné, + révisions nécéssaires

## Concepts

### Entreprise

Plus haut niveau de description d'un ensemble d'organisations ayant les mêmes buts
 - Toutes les missions et fonctions
 - Souvent répartie en plusieurs organisations

Elle se définit par un ensemble de capacités (Capabilities)

Rôle de l'Architecture d'Entreprise -> Transformer l'Entreprise

### Capacité

Hiérarchique et composées de Capacités

Limiter le niveau d'abstraction

Transformer l'Entreprise -> Agir sur ses Capacités (Acquérir, Supprimer, Modifier)


### Business



## TOGAF Architecture Development Method (ADM) 

## Annex 1 : So what are businesses?

> Taken from "Why does Enterprise Architecture Matter?" 
https://publications.opengroup.org/w076

TODO Get bold formatting from original document 

A business enterprise, whether in the private or public sector, grows from
the vision of individuals to meet the requirements of others. As a business
grows it often reaches the stage where it needs investment and may turn to
stocks and shareholders to satisfy that need. The business is delivered
through a hierarchy of organizations that form relationships, sometimes
contractually, with suppliers and with one or more interested parties or
partners.
Whether formally defined or not, the vision determines current business
goals and the longer-term strategy. Goals are often broken down into
shorter-term tactical objectives, owned by individual actors (i.e.,
employees or service providers), which collectively should contribute to
realize the associated goal. Goals and objectives are defined, tracked, and
monitored by defined measures, such as KPIs.
Inevitably, there are external market drivers, which have a direct impact on
the objectives and goals. Over time, these external drivers can re-shape the
original vision and business direction. The drivers can be external – e.g., the
price or differentiating features of a competitor’s service or product, or
region-specific legislation – or internal – e.g., margin targets or the need to
cut costs.
The business operates within specific external constraints that can prevent
the organization from pursuing particular approaches to meet its goals; for
example, a tightly-defined regulatory environment, or trade restrictions.
1 Enterprise Architecture in the context of this White Paper is as documented in The Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF), Version 9,
ISBN: 9-789087-532307, available from www.vanharen.net.
A business enterprise,
whether in the private or
public sector, grows from
the vision of individuals
to meet the requirements
of others.
A business generates products, such as automobiles or consumer goods,
and provides business services, such as payroll services or plant
maintenance services, for the market, which are manufactured or delivered
to appropriate standards or guidelines.
A business is an organization that contracts actors (its employees or
service providers) to perform various functions usually with other actors.
Actors are assigned to defined roles in the organization that have defined
responsibilities and skills; for example, financial accountants with book-
keeping skills. The business organization’s actors are typically organized
around the business functions, and third-party suppliers support these
functions. In this context, the operation of a function is described by a set
of processes. Organization units, and their respective actors, are based
across many geographic locations.
The above concepts form the strategic context within which the business
operates, and are a significant proportion of the architecture of a business.
Although functions are also appropriate to the business architecture, the
business’s functions are realized through actors performing one or more
processes. Processes show the flow between functions or the operation of
a function. A process can be decomposed into triggered or resulting
events, the business outputs or product of the process, controls or
decision-making steps that are carried out, and the functions required to
execute the process.
To achieve greater efficiency and flexibility in its approach, an organization
can decompose its functions into specific defined business services, such as
customer contact management, or spare parts stock control. Specific
business services are defined where the function can be defined by an
explicit interface and where it needs explicit control and governance. The
degree of granularity of the service is determined by the objectives and
focus of the organization.
In order to ensure that interactions between service providers and service
consumers agree on the expected outcome, a service contract is formally
defined. This will ensure that the service provides agreed qualities or levels
of service.

 
## Resources 

[TOGAF Pocket Guide](https://pubs.opengroup.org/pocket-guides/togaf-pocket-guide/main/introduction.html)
